We now turn our attention to the data and the architecture needed to support that data,
for data science initiatives.
In the planning process,
it is wise to craft a data and data architecture strategy for the business.
This strategy includes five components that together guide
the leader regarding how to plan for the use of data within the organization,
especially for data science initiatives.
The first component is data requirements.
What data should be included in the data strategy?
Just because you have identified data across all parts of the business,
does not mean that all of that should be
prioritized for initial inclusion in the data strategy.
You will need to create ETL pipelines from
individual data platforms through the company
in order to bring any data to the point of analytics.
These pipelines can be complex,
so it is wise to focus on only the most necessary components at the very beginning.
The second component of the data and data architecture strategy concerns data governance.
How will we promote data availability?
Who will be given access to the data?
What can we do to make the data more usable to the end-user?
How do we guarantee data integrity?
Finally, how do we ensure data security?
These are aspects of a data governance strategy which serve as
a second component of the data and data architecture strategy.
Third is the technology component which
identifies the components of your data architecture.
Are you storing data in a data lake or via a relational or non-relational database?
Are you accessing that data directly or through API endpoints?
These are technology questions that make up
the third component to the data and data architecture strategy.
The fourth component is skills and capacity.
How do you promote development of
data literacy skills and capacity throughout the organization?
Do you plan to provide company-wide training or is training more targeted?
Is it offered on a regular basis,
or is it available just in time?
How are data updates published throughout the company?
Finally, the fifth component of a data and
data architecture strategy is support for machine learning.
What are the machine learning components of the architecture?
How does it interface with the data architecture?
In the last section, we discussed three alternatives for data science initiatives.
Fully built and maintained in house,
hosted via managed services using Cloud service providers,
in reliance on commercial solutions.
These are the three alternatives that make up
the machine learning component to the data and data architecture strategy.